WIP New hooks description (#586)
kubev2v/forklift-documentation: documentation/modules/about-hooks-for-migration-plans.adoc

// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-hooks-for-migration-plans_{context}"]
= About hooks for {project-short} migration plans

You can add hooks to {project-first} migration plans using either the {project-short} CLI or the {project-short} user interface, which is located in the {ocp} web console.

* _Pre-migration_ hooks are hooks that perform operations on a VM that is located on a provider. This prepares the VM for migration.

* _Post-migration_ hooks are hooks that perform operations on a VM that has migrated to {virt}.

[id="default-hook-image_{context}"]
== Default hook image
The default hook image for an {project-short} hook is `quay.io/konveyor/hook-runner`. The image is based on the Ansible Runner image with the addition of `python-openshift` to provide Ansible Kubernetes resources and a recent `oc` binary.

[id="hook-execution_{context}"]
== Hook execution
An Ansible playbook that is provided as part of a migration hook is mounted into the hook container as a `ConfigMap`. The hook container is run as a job on the desired cluster, using the default `ServiceAccount` in the `konveyor-forklift` namespace.

> 

Author: @matthewsecaur @mnecas  Matthew comments: The text says: "The hook container is run as a job on the desired cluster, using the default ServiceAccount in the konveyor-forklift namespace"
Issue: MTV is not installed in the konveyor-forklift namespace. It is installed in openshift-mtv. Also, the default serviceAccount is forklift-controller, though it might not be necessary to mention that.

Reviewer: Yeah it should be the `oepsnfhit-mtv` and the `ServiceAccount` does not have any default value and should be set by user.

When you add a hook, you must specify the namespace where the `Hook` CR is located, the name of the hook, and whether the hook is a pre-migration hook or a post-migration hook.

[IMPORTANT]
====
In order for a hook to run on a VM, the VM must be started and available using SSH.
====

The illustration that follows shows the general process of using a migration hook. For specific procedures, see xref:adding-migration-hook-via-ui_{context}[Adding a migration hook to a migration plan using the {ocp} web console] and xref:adding-migration-hook-via-cli_{context}[Adding a migration hook to a migration plan using the CLI].

.Adding a hook to a migration plan
image::migration_hook_process.png[Adding a hook to a migration plan]

*Process:*

. Input your Ansible hook and credentials.

.. Input an Ansible hook image to the {project-short} controller using either the UI or the CLI.
+
* In the UI, specify the `ansible-runner` and enter the `playbook.yml` that contains the hook.

>  the spec.playbook they need to provide us with image that has an ansible-runner. So they don't need to be based on the hook-runner but only need the ansible-runner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The spec.playbook you need to provide with image that has an ansible-runner. So you only need the ansible-runner and not the hook-runner.
```
This is a weird sentence. Please clarify

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-hooks-for-migration-plans_{context}"]
= About hooks for {project-short} migration plans

You can add hooks to {project-first} migration plans using either the {project-short} CLI or the {project-short} user interface, which is located in the {ocp} web console.

> * Hooks that perform operations on VMs before migration are called _pre-migration_ hooks.  A pre-migration hook is performed on a VM that is located on the provider and prepares the VM for migration.

Reviewer 3: As always, up to you what you want to incorporate. :-)

Pre-migration hooks are hooks that perform operations on a VM that is located on a provider, which prepares the VM for migration.

> * Hooks that perform operations on VMs after migration are called _post-migration_ hooks. A post-migration hook is performed on a VM after it has been migrated to {virt}.

Reviewer 3: Post-migration hooks are hooks that perform operations on a VM that has migrated to {virt}.

[id="default-hook-image_{context}"]
== Default hook image
The default hook image for an {project-short} hook is `quay.io/konveyor/hook-runner`. The image is based on the Ansible Runner image with the addition of `python-openshift` to provide Ansible Kubernetes resources and a recent `oc` binary.

[id="hook-execution_{context}"]
== Hook execution
An Ansible playbook that is provided as part of a migration hook is mounted into the hook container as a `configmap`. The hook container is run as a job on the desired cluster, using the default `ServiceAccount` in the `konveyor-forklift` namespace.

> When you add a hook, you must specify the namespace where the `Hook` CR is located, the name of the hook, and specify whether the hook is a pre-migration hook or a post-migration hook.

Reviewer 3: Don't think you need the second "specify."

[IMPORTANT]
====

> In order for a hook to run on a VM, the VM must be started and available via SSH.

Reviewer 3: Please check our standards.  Not sure we use "via".

====

> The illustration that follows shows the general process of using a migration hook. Specific procedures are described in xref:adding-migration-hook-via-ui_{context}[Adding a migration hook to a migration plan using the {ocp} web console] and xref:adding-migration-hook-via-cli_{context}[Adding a migration hook to a migration plan using the CLI].

Reviewer 3: Maybe...

For specific procedures, see XXX.    (If see is allowed per our standards.  I felt that the procedures themselves are probably given versus "described.")

*Process:*

. Input your Ansible hook and credentials.

.. Input an Ansible hook image to the {project-short} controller using either the UI or the CLI.
+
* In the UI, specify the `ansible-runner` and enter the `playbook.yml` that contains the hook.
* In the CLI, input the hook image, which specifies the playbook that runs the hook.

.. If you need additional data to run the playbook inside the pod, such as SSH data, create a Secret that contains credentials for the VM. The Secret is not mounted to the pod, but is called by the playbook.
+
[NOTE]
====
This Secret is not the same as the `Secret` CR that contains the credentials of your source provider.
====

. The {project-short} controller creates the `configmap`, which contains:

** `workload.yml`, which contains information about the VMs.
** `playbook.yml`, the raw string playbook you want to execute.
** `plan.yml`, which is the `Plan` CR.
+
The `configmap` contains the name of the VM and instructs the playbook what to do.

. The {project-short} controller creates a job that starts the user specified image.
.. Mounts the `configmap` to the container.
+
The Ansible hook imports the Secret that the user previously entered.

> . The job runs a prehook or a posthook as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. The job runs a pre-migration hook or a post-migration hook as follows:
```
I would probably be explicit... as I do not like `prehook` and `posthook` (but this is your choice not mine)

> . The job runs a prehook or a posthook as follows:

Reviewer 2: OR... use the style you use later

```suggestion
. The job runs a `PreHook` or a `PostHook` as follows:
```

.. For a pre-migration hook, the job logs into the VMs on the source provider using SSH and runs the hook.
.. For a post-migration hook, the job logs into the VMs on {virt} using SSH and runs the hook.

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: You know what i am going to say :)

```suggestion
```
